OK, next up, we'll learn about equalities and inequalities.
This is where we can have Java determine whether or not two values two numbers in this case are equal
to each other, or one may be greater than or less than the other variations like that.
So let's see how to do this.
All right.
So clear this bit out.
OK, so what I think will do is make actually, we'll just have the two numbers again.
Let's do number one and number two, and let's set them both to three and then let's print out something.
And so first off, let's just ask Java if these two numbers are the same number.
And to do that, we can do number one space.
Now here's something that's going to be a little unique if you've never seen this before.
We're going to use equals equals.
Now you have you have seen this in one lesson earlier where we were comparing two objects to determine
whether or not they were both pointing at the same memory location, the same location in memory.
However, when the equals equals operator, also known as just the equals operator, is being used for
numbers.
There's no memory comparison going on.
And instead, it's literally just trying to determine whether or not the two numbers are the same.
So let's see how this behaves when we run it.
OK, we get a true so just as when we were using the equals operator with objects, it returns a boolean
true or false truth in this case, if they are both the same number or as false.
Now, please keep in mind the difference between the assignment operator, which is this thing one equals
sign versus the equals operator, which is two equal signs together.
This one, the assignment operator, assigns a value to a variable.
OK.
Whereas the equals operator answers the question of whether or not the two things on either side are
equal to each other or point to the same memory location if it's objects.
So pretty, pretty huge difference there.
There are some other operations that we can use when comparing numbers, though they should generally
all be familiar from algebra class.
So in addition to asking if two numbers are equal, we can also ask is one greater than or less than
another?
And we use the greater than and less than symbols just like this.
So let's run this.
OK, so three is not greater than three if we make number one, a five and run this.
OK, now we get a true as you would expect, and then we can use the less than and that's going to do
what you would expect it to.
OK, so we get a false there and then we'll change this bottom line to something else.
OK, now there's one more pair that you will want to be aware of, and that is greater than or equal.
OK, so we can also ask is one number greater than or equal to another one?
So if we do another minute here, if we do six and five.
Is six greater than or equal to five?
The answer is true, which is yes.
And if we turn this five into a six and run this again.
That is also true.
Six is equal to six, six is greater than or equal to six.
And then there's also a less than or equal less than or equal.
And that does what you would expect.
I'm not going to run through that.
OK.
And there's one more.
What if you want to ask if two numbers are not equal to each other?
You can do that.
Also, the way to do that is with an exclamation equals sign.
OK.
So let's run.
This is six, not equal to six.
That is false because they are equal.
So now if we make one of them different and run this.
OK, so that would be true, three is not equal to six.
Now the way I'm showing you these here, you may be questioning, and rightly so.
This isn't all that useful to just be printing out whether or not these things are equal or not equal
to each other or whatever.
Where this is usually used is with if statements.
And I don't want to go too much into this right now, though, we have touched on if just a tiny, tiny
bit earlier, but you will learn this in a later section where we'll go all into control flow and things.
But yeah, so we would use an if statement typically.
And then we'd say something like if no one is greater than or equal to number two, then do some things
right.
We will revisit some of this a little bit later.
But since these equalities and things are part of dealing with numbers and we're in the number chapter,
I thought I'd go ahead and and introduce them to you now, even though they won't be of significant
use until we get to control flow and learn how to use the if statements and things of that sort.
And that's going to wrap up this short little lesson and I'll see in the next one.